#Assignment: Reflection Two
*Brief responses are just fine*

1. Can you think of an example of a microaggression that you have experienced, witnessed, or perpetrated? How did you handle it? Would you handle it the same way now?

The example that sticks out in my mind the most was when I was teaching in a predominantly African American high school classroom. I had only been teaching at the school for a few weeks and I was thrown into this classroom with no prep time and no real plans. It was not a good time for the students they had lost 3 teachers in as many weeks. I was very cognizant of the turmoil in the classroom. My first day I really hung back and let the kids deal and talk we worked but not nearly as much as we really should have been working. There were two girls in particular who were really aggressive about everything in the school especially me. It was clear to me that they did not like or trust me because I am middle class and white. They figured that I would head for the hills like the rest and honestly I could not blame them with what they had been through. Towards the end of the day I asked them what was one thing that would make the classroom better. They said that they wanted books in the classroom but they knew that wasn’t going to happen. They had no dictionaries, 2 textbooks that they had to share among 10 kids (everyone else got copies), and no library either in the school or in the classroom. It looked like a typical federal funded classroom, that is to say nothing on the walls and nothing in the bookcases. I told them that I would take care of it. That night after school I went to a school and community resource center that provides teachers with books, science equipment, and posters for a donation. I was there for an hour and in that hour I got over 100 books and a handful of posters. I went in early the next day and set up everything in the classroom so that it was ready when the kids came in. One of the girls walked in and was not impressed the other walked in and said "that's great but when you leave in like a week you are going to take all of them with you like the others." I told her that these books are high school level books and they would do me no good in an elementary classroom so no matter where I went the books were staying in that room. She actually started to cry out of happiness. That was a huge turning point for me as an educator it was the point when I realized how important simple actions are when improving relationships. For an hour and a half of my own time and a small donation I helped a child to understand that people do care no matter what their race or background. Overall I feel that I would handle it the same way.


1. Knowing what we know about institutional oppression and the lack of diversity in tech, what would you like to see tech organizations and companies doing to improve equity, diversity, and inclusion?

Yes, and I know this is the teacher in me but that really starts with teacher training in tech fields. If teachers have better exposure to tech then their students will as well. Most elementary and high  schools will not provide teachers with this vital knowledge because they fear teachers leaving for better opportunities. I know a lot of teachers who would give up nights and weekends for training at a reduced price. If tech companies opened their doors to teacher training then they could reach far more students than they do with student training.
Similarly, we can use technology to reach out to minorities. There are programs like made with code that focus on promoting coding to females. Although I feel like this program over compensates the color pallet is very pastel and full of pinks and purples. Also there are no male emojis in the projects for creating emojis. Having said that they do a great job with making sure that many different ethnicities are represented.   
